# Certificate description

FISCO-BCOS network adopts a CA-oriented access mechanism to support any multi-level certificate structure for ensuring information confidentiality, authentication, integrity, and non-repudiation.

FISCO BCOS uses the [x509 protocol certificate format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509). According to the existing business scenario, a three level certificate structure is adopted by default, and from top to bottom, the three levels are chain certificate, agency certificate, and node certificate respective.

In multi-group architecture, a chain has a chain certificate and a corresponding chain private key, and the chain private key is jointly managed by the federation chain committee. The alliance chain committee may issue the agency certificate `agency.crt` according to the requesting file `agency.csr` which is generated by agency private key.

Agency private key held by the agency administrator can issue node certificate to the agency's subordinate nodes.

Node certificate is the credential of node identity and uses this certificate to establish an SSL connection with other nodes for encrypted communication.

sdk certificate is a voucher for sdk communicating with node. Agency generates sdk certificate that allows sdk to do that.

The files’ suffixes of FISCO BCOS node running are described as follows:

| Suffix | Description |
| :-: | :-: |
| .key | private file|
| .crt | certificate file
| .csr  | certificate request file |
| .crl | certificate revocation list |

## Role definition：

There are four roles in the FISCO-BCOS certificate structure, namely the alliance chain committee administrator, agency, node, and SDK.

### Alliance chain committee:

* The alliance chain committee manages private key of chain, and issues agency certificate according to agency's certificate request document `agency.csr`.

```bash
ca.crt chain certificate
ca.key chain private key
```

In the verification logic of FISCO BCOS, the certificate chain sent by the other node/SDK is verified according to the locally read chain certificate `ca.crt`.

### Agency:

* •	Agency has an agency private key that can issue node certificate and SDK certificate.

```bash
ca.crt chain certificate
agency.crt agency certificate
agency.csr agency certificate request file
agency.key agency private key
```

Node certificate generated by agency will contain the agency certificate `agency.crt`. The node/SDK will first verify the `agency.crt` according to `ca.crt` during communication verification.

### Node/SDK:

* FISCO BCOS node and SDK certificate have same logic which is managing private key and certificate.

```bash
ca.crt chain certificate
node.crt node/SDK certificate
node.key node/SDK private key
```

Node/SDK certificate `node.crt` contains the mosaic `agency.crt`. When node communicates with other node/SDK, it will use its own private key `node.key` to sign the message, and send its own `node.crt` to the other node/SDK for verification.

## Certificate generation process:

FISCO BCOS certificate generation process is as follows. Users can also use the [Enterprise Deployment Tool](../enterprise_tools/operation.md) to generate corresponding certificate

### Chain certificate generation:

* Alliance chain committee uses openssl command to request chain private key `ca.key`, and generates chain certificate `ca.crt` according to ca.key.

### Agency certificate generation:

* Agency uses openssl command to generate agency private key `agecy.key`
* Agency uses private key `agency.key` to get agency certificate request file `agency.csr`, and sends `agency.csr` to alliance chain committee.
* Alliance chain committee uses chain private key `ca.key` to generate the agency certificate `agency.crt` according to the agency certificate request file `agency.csr`. And send agency certificate `agency.crt` to corresponding agency.

### Node/SDK certificate generation:

* Agency generates private key `node.key`, and generates node/SDK certificate `node.crt` according to agency certificate `agency.crt`, private key `agency.key`, and the node/SDK private key `node.key`.
